The UFCs signing of Greg Hardy strikes a personal chord with womens flyweight Jessica-Rose Clark.

A domestic violence survivor, Clark said shes very against the promotions decision to sign the former NFL star, whose history with domestic violence is well-documented.

I dont believe people like that change, the 30-year-old fighter said during an appearance on the Phonebooth Fighting podcast.

Clark (9-4 MMA, 2-0 UFC), whos scheduled to face Jessica Eye (12-6 MMA, 2-6 UFC) at UFC Fight Night 132, spoke about her own experience with domestic violence and how it shaped her opinions on those who perpetrate it. The native Australian said that while her former fiance Julian Wallace pleaded guilty in 2016 to two counts of assault, he received just a 15-month suspended sentence, a small fine and was allowed to retain his passport by Australian authorities.

They gave him his second chance, and Im a firm believer that someone who is capable of going as far as he went with me  and I know hes been further with other women before I met him  hes not going to change, Clark said. He can do all the convincing and all the lying in the world, and he can convince you that hes a really good person. But who he is at his core is someone whos capable and willing to do stuff like that.

More: Hardy scores KO victory in first professional MMA fight, earns UFC deal

More: Hardy's UFC opportunity isn't about redemption  it's about money

More: Ronda Rousey to be inducted into UFC Hall of Fame

Wallace, best known for his role in a viral video that saw him bully and then get knocked out by UFC fighter Ben Nguyen, was charged after an April incident in which he reportedly confronted Clark at home after she brought home the wrong noodles for dinner. He accused her of infidelity, then proceeded to kick her in the head while wearing boots, hit her in the face and knee her in the ribs, and then throw her to the ground. He also tried to choke her, but Clark said she broke out of the hold and knocked him out with a head kick before calling police.


Wallace took partial responsibility for his role in a very violent relationship with Clark and said he only pleaded guilty because of financial reasons and wanted her to leave him alone. Clark released a detailed Facebook statement describing her experience with Wallace, urging others struggling with domestic abuse to seek help. Wallaces history with abuse didnt go unnoticed by the MMA community, and his career sputtered after his guilty plea.

Despite strong backlash on social meda, UFC President Dana White gave Hardy a pass to compete on his UFC Fight Pass-streamed Contender Series.

White misrepresented the former All-Pro defensive ends history with domestic violence, saying he was never convicted of his charges (Hardy was convicted, though charges were dropped when the victim failed to testify on appeal). White also said Hardy deserved a second chance, despite once calling such an act a career-ender in the UFC.

On Tuesday, Hardy made good on his opportunity and knocked out Austen Lane in 57 seconds to secure a UFC development contract. White said afterward that Hardy has paid his dues and hit rock bottom and was doing the right things to turn his life around.

Clark, though, criticized the standards to which star athletes are held when accusations of domestic violence first surface.

Athletic ability seems to supersede any negative thing you do in your life, Clark said. You see it time and time again, like Kobe Bryant. It happens so often, and it blows my mind that thats where our society is at. That like, Oh, he did all these really terrible things, but hes an amazing athlete, so (expletive) it, lets just let him keep going and keep making his millions and keep being on TV. Theres no punishment.

What stops (Hardy) from going and doing it to the next girlfriend? I promise you that wasnt the first girlfriend that he did that to. But he didnt get punished for that one, either. He didnt get punished for the first ones, and he didnt get punished for that one, and now hes going to be televised on one of the largest broadcasts in the world, for one of the most popular sports in the world. Whats stopping him from doing it to every girl that comes into contact with him?

But one of the most concerning issues at play when it comes to the subject of domestic violence, according to Clark, is how little people look beyond the surface when it comes to an athletes past.

In the age of social media, its hard for people to care about it, because whether you react negatively or positively to something, now with social media and how quickly people have access to that, you get an immediate feedback, Clark said. So its like drinking or taking drugs  you say something, you get a reaction straight away, which is what I think people crave. So theres no need to look into anything further, because youre getting that quick fix all the time.

Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Best of UFC 225
 Fullscreen
Robert Whittaker (red gloves) defeats Yoel Romero (blue gloves) during UFC 225 at United Center. .  Kamil Krzaczynski,USA TODAY Sports