Nashville-based country stars love to play tourist at home
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP)  Tourism comes alive in the Music City during summer, but the thousands who flock here arent the only sightseers in town.

Many Nashville-based stars enjoy playing tourist, too.

Ive been to the Country Music Hall of Fame a few times and ... you always learn something new, Russell Dickerson told The Associated Press. You cant take in all that information at one time going, but like seeing some of Elviss old Cadillacs, like are you kidding me? Its crazy.

He doesnt mind the attention from fans while hes out visiting Nashville landmarks.

Everybody is super nice and we just take a little picture, say Whats up? and its all good, said Dickerson.


Hunter Hayes said in an AP interview that he constantly goes to concerts in Nashville when hes not on the road.

I realize that Im here all the time, which is hilarious, he said. But I just. Yeah I love the energy of the city. I think we all do. You know once we moved here, I was like Oh my gosh, its so crowded and then we realized but theres a lot of cool things happening.

Morgan Evans and his wife, Kelsea Ballerini, have been rediscovering the city by foot lately and enjoying the sights downtown.

Its like one of our new favorite things to do since it started warming up, Evans said. After dinner well just go for a walk around town and its so cool. You know, like a weeknight, you walk around and its a good reminder that you get to. . like we get to live here. Music City. You know, Broadway is right there and the Ryman Auditorium is right there and the Hall of Fame is right there. And yeah, I mean we love living in Nashville so much, so thats kind of our new thing.

Tourism comes alive in the summer, but the thousands who flock to the city arent the only sightseers in town. Many Nashville-based country stars enjoy playing tourist too. (June 21)
Sometimes, though, its just good to be home.

Tyler Rich said he doesnt get out much when hes in Nashville but likes to do touristy things in other cities when hes on the road.

I have a weird thing where I like to go to zoos, Rich said. I love zoos. I like to go and just hang out and see all the animals. And any type of history. I like museums and Im a dork. But its cool.