What Americans Really Think About Sports Betting
By Gary Belsky
March 30, 2018

Ive come to think that Venmo, PayPal and the like might very well go out of business were it not for the annual three-week gambling festival known as the N.C.A.A. Division I mens basketball tournament (estimated wagers this year: more than $10 billion).

But maybe thats just me, what with the many bracket pools Im invited to join every spring and the associated entry fees Im asked to payment-app-as-verb to various gambling enablers  I mean pool organizers  around the country.

My particular challenges aside, this years iteration of March Madness and the Final Four is yet another reminder of Americas long-simmering and complex relationship with sports betting.

The United States Supreme Court, in a case to be decided in the next few months, is expected to rule in favor of the State of New Jersey and overturn a ban on non-internet sports betting in all but four states (Delaware, Montana, Nevada and Oregon). According to a recent report from Eilers & Krejcik Gaming, at least 18 state legislatures are preparing bills to legalize and regulate sports gambling.

That none of these developments has rallied much outcry or opposition reflects both an evolution and devolution of attitudes toward the subject.

In 1992, a federal law banned sports betting in most of the country. A Gallup/CNN/USA Today poll showed that a majority of Americans disapproved of legalization. This reflected long-held concerns, not only in regard to the activity itself but also to the dangers it posed to the integrity of our games. High-profile gambling scandals  ranging from the 1919 Black Sox fixing of the World Series to revelations that the baseball legend Pete Rose bet on games in which he participated  confirmed for many people that sports and betting were not a good match.

By 2014, however, polls began to show that a majority of Americans had begun to rethink their skepticism. What changed in the intervening years? A lot, including the introduction of the internet  which for a period made online gambling (especially poker) easily accessible without bringing down the Republic.

Some credit must also go to Super Bowl Squares sheets and March Madness pools, the gateway drugs of serious sports gambling (with dealers across the country).

Credit, too, the escalation of athletes salaries, which makes the reward of taking bribes to throw games rarely worth the risk of getting caught. (Its no coincidence that tennis and lower-tier soccer  whose competitors often earn little enough to be vulnerable  continue to struggle most with match fixing.)

But theres a strong case to be made that no factor has contributed more to the normalizing of sports gambling  in America, at least  than the four-decade rise of fantasy sports. Fantasy, in its broadest and most benign form, has been a godsend for major sports leagues, providing a (mostly) harmless way to keep fans engaged in a world of growing entertainment options.

Whatever the catalyst, Americans are now betting more than $150 billion annually on professional and college contests. (All but $250 million of it is illegal, which is why definitive figures are hard to come by.) By comparison, the non-betting sports industry  ticket sales, media rights, advertising revenue  is expected to reach around $74 billion next year.

Gambling does not represent any kind of new threat to American sports. On the contrary, its a homecoming of sorts to sports roots.

Theres no record of it, but its almost a certainty that as soon as the first pair of crook-wielding Scottish shepherds decided to see who could knock dried sheep dung closest to a rabbit hole  golf!  so, too, did a couple of nearby highland lads agree to wager on the outcome. Ancient Olympics, scholars believe, had betting scandals, involving bribetaking athletes throwing a wrestling match or foot race.

More relevant and recent is the close connection between betting and two of the worlds oldest and most popular organized sports, cricket and baseball  both, it should be noted, invented in England.

Until the mid-17th century, cricket was played almost exclusively by children, what with working people (who included teenagers back then) having little leisure time for much besides eating, sleeping and creating more little cricketers. But the twin engines of the English Civil War (1642-51) and the Industrial Revolution (about 1760-1840) gave working-class Britons their first taste of individual liberty and free time  the men, at least. That brought grown-ups to the cricket pitch. And they, in turn, brought the gamblers.

Betting was so integral to crickets modern provenance that the first rules books were concerned almost entirely with the adjudication of betting disagreements. Likewise, the earliest newspaper accounts of cricket matches focused a little on runs tallied and a lot on amounts wagered. Landed gentry and other moneyed types were especially fond of the new hobby.

Baseball, one of the earliest known references to which (base-ball) shows up in a 1744 English publication, A Little Pretty Pocket Book, also began as childs play but flowered as an adult activity. But Americas national pastime, which started evolving almost as soon as play began in North America, retained at least one strand of British sporting DNA: Yanks loved to gamble on it  and not just on the outcome of games.

In a foreshadowing of todays proposition bets  wagers made on specific moments, events or statistics within a larger game context  baseball fans in the mid- 19th century often bet on the outcome of a single at-bat and even a specific pitch. It was rampant, said John Thorn, official historian for Major League Baseball and author of Baseball in the Garden of Eden. Baseball could not have risen as a vehicle for adult attention were it not for gambling. The games first betting scandal: 1865.

So fast were bets laid and so furiously did money change hands that serious gamblers congregated near the field, in sections referred to as pool boxes. Their coarse banter and unseemly behavior  imagine a stock trading pit, but with chewing tobacco and whiskey  forced many of the games organizers, who were interested in drawing families and other wholesome spectators, to shut down the pool boxes.

This did nothing to curtail betting because the pool boxes simply reset nearby, in saloons and billiards halls, using runners to bring news back from the diamond.

In fact, so closely did betting pools and pool boxes become associated with billiards that when sports-bar patrons took a break from this Marchs madness, some doubtless turned away from the bank of TVs, picked up a cue stick and challenged someone to a game Americans long ago stopped referring to as billiards and started, for obvious reasons, calling pool.

As for this springs pools, expect a frenzy of digital transactions once the 2018 tourney champ is crowned and winnings are distributed. Just dont expect any money to wind up in my Venmo account. My brackets were busted quicker than you can say Sister Jean.



