Kim Kardashian finds Kanye West 'exhausting' and 'overwhelming'
Even Kim Kardashian is having trouble taking Mercy on Kanye West amid his latest tirade.
The reality TV star found her husbands blabbering this week exhausting and overwhelming, a source close to Kardashian told People mag.
First, West told the crowd at a Monday open-mic event in Chicago that hes moving back to the Windy City, where he was raised. But his Los Angeles-area based wife and kids reportedly wont follow him there full-time. And then on Thursday, the rapper ranted that his wife never dated Drake, despite the rumors, and addressed beef with Nick Cannon and Tyson Beckford in a series of Instagram videos.
The back-to-back outbursts reportedly didnt set well with Kardashian.
Kanye has always been like this, a source told People. He has a million things on his mind that he wants to accomplish and create. Although one can see it as being very passionate, it can still be overwhelming for Kim. 
The source added: She doesnt necessarily love when people now keep asking her if she is moving to Chicago and she has to explain to everyone whats going on. It can be exhausting.
Wests planned move to Chicago itself isnt stressing out Kardashian, 37, since the couple has had a long distance marriage in the past, the source says. But a different source affiliated with West, 41, told People that the Instagram rants indicate hes lost his focus and his mind is constantly changing.
Its happening again, the West source said. Late night texts, and hes all over the place. Hes not sleeping a lot at night, just a few hours per night, and hes go go go. But hes not making a lot of sense...Hes moving to Chicago. No, hes working on new music. No, hes doing some sort of memorial to his mom. Hes focusing on Kim and the kids. Hes withdrawing. He wants to be social. It never stops. Hes not focused right now. 
Part of Wests Thursday rants stemmed from a Complex interview in which Cannon said he didnt think it was far off of a concept that Kardashian and Drake hooked up. First of all I want to address Nick Cannon, West said in one video. I understand that you used to date my wife, but you know, you get into an interview, dont mention my wife.
West  known for hits like Gold Digger, Stronger and Mercy  then turned his attention to Drake, saying, The fact that its people making rumors or thinking that you f---ed my wife and youre not saying nothing and you carrying it like that, that dont sit well with my spirit.
Beckford didnt escape Wests wrath either. The model once dissed Kardashians body, commenting on a photo of her, I dont care for it personally.
So West demanded Thursday, As far as Tyson Beckford goes, dont speak on my wife, bro. Like none of yall speak on my wife period. What is you talking about? Im married. Were in love, were a family.

