Cigarettes, alcohol and a 5am jog: how to become Liam Gallagher
In many ways, I am Liam Gallagher. We are both in our 40s. I can rock a 24 Primark version of that 467 orange Oi Polloi parka Liam wore to One Love Manchester. Er  I own a tambourine. Now, finally, an opportunity has come to cash in on my Liamness. A film about Creation Records Alan McGee is being made: Nick Moran, Irvine Welsh and Danny Boyle are behind it, with Ewen Bremner as McGee. They have put out an open casting call for the young Liam, and all you have to do is upload footage of yourself reading the script from ITVs 1994 doc With Oasis. Its my time to shiiine. So, how best prepare? I need to think like Liam. Swagger like Liam. Live like Liam.

5.30am: go for a run 
Who gets up at this time apart from birds and postal workers? Rock stars. I get up at half five every morning, Liam told Beats 1 in 2017, else everyones going: When are Oasis getting back together? and Im like, Im doing a fucking press-up here, mate. Whats the Gallagher regime? I run for about an hour. Up hills, down hills. I aint got one of them silly watches and I dont listen to music, Liam told Radio X. I last 12 minutes before keeling over with heat exhaustion. Shouldnt have worn that parka.


Sign up for the Sleeve Notes email: music news, bold reviews and unexpected extras
 Read more
11am: vocal training 
Liam told Absolute Radio in 2011 he doesnt do vocal warm-ups because he doesnt want to sound like Chris Martin. He told Shortlist in 2013 he was sick of fucking idiots saying I cant sing. In 2017, he tweeted: To all you NG fanboys, I can and will sing any song he wrote bigger, better than him, even if I was kicked in the bollox by a wood pigeon. Liams voice is different these days  more from his diaphragm than his throat  but it takes a fair bit of vocal power to muster an acerbic enough nice one.

3pm: get the band back together 
In 2018, bookies slashed odds of Oasis re-forming to 3/1 after Liam tweeted: I forgive you, lets get the BIG O back together and stop fucking about LG x. It didnt happen. In 2018, NG told Radio X hes rather go busking than re-form Oasis. But everyones got a price. NG told Vulture in 2015 hed reform Oasis for half a billion. He never said half a billion what, though. Smarties? Grains of sand? I have a whip round, and send Noel a tweet. I know its not half a billion, but Ive got 9.73p here. No reply.

7pm: the big audition 
Im ready. All I have to do is read: Im not into slapping anyone around  But theres days when Ive needed a slap  And theres days hes needed a slap  Its hardly Shakespeare. Its not even Shaun Ryder, the WB Yeats of Madchester according to Tony Wilson. Imagine keeping this up for a whole film. I press send and unzip my parka. Ill let you know if I hear back.
